Ok perfect. Now I want to write a narrative to this and what happened. How my players played it out. 

First, there was only 4, Yldroth hasn't been around in a while. 

Opening scene in the room with the runes that they discovered last time. This room led in to another of the Architects Pocket dimension. 

He greeted them, said he could hear the book, and asked for it. The players had quick pow-wow about not wanting to. So they witheld (in narrative it can be some side-eye like glances, maybe a quick headshake). 

The architect sighed, and from then on you could tell he was slightly agitated. But beyond the 4th wall, we know it's because he has no need to "play into the holy minor-diety" character anymore. After they refused to hand it over, he summoned it out of their hands just as we described. he tried to open the book with powers (i described as tendrils of light coming out of his hands and trying to weave into the book itself), but could not. This triggered some kind of rambling (much likd we described him saying, i just portrayed it as a little off putting, like a drugged out person out of touch with reality). Finally he says something like "Look, we need the book open. I need the book open to remember how to destory the crown. You all need the book open because if someone gets their hands on this, the world as you know it is over." "he waves his hand through the book since he's incorporeal showing he can't interact with it, "clearly it's not me going to take it",  "who's going to open the book for me?" They still don't want to do it,, but he catches Ardyn examping it, trying to see if there's a secret to unlocking it, so he hops into Ardyns head. "I know there are two of but us, Cirra and myself, who know your secret. I can remove that knowledge from her, no one has to know, just open the book". Still hesitancy, so he motions toward the blank walls (no doorways), "I guess we'll wait" and leans against the wall. The book was as levitating in the middle of the room. Spine up, cover just ever so slightly open (i.e. not tightly shut), and the pages ever so slightly fanned out. Like it was being held by the spine, and the book freely dangled thus opening by even just 2-3 degrees of the spine opening. 

Finally Ardyn steps forward and grabs the book too open it, but as soon as he touches it, it springs to life and completely opens, pages fanning, covers touching behind the book . It turns over, opens out flat (like on a table), and the pages fan out. 
"Good, the architect says" putting his hands up again. The light comes out of his hands again, and instead of splitting the spine, it digs into the heart of the book, splitting inbetween pages, and the gem is exposed. Then we continue the rest of the scene as planned. The crown begins to assemble. They hear the note when it's complete, and they see a little ripple of light next to it, like a tear in reality. They aren't paying attention to see the projection of himself is no longer there. The seem splits, and a fist plunges out grabbing the crown. (they still don't know it's him). They look for him to see his reaction, but he's gone. The seam opens and steps through. Vorn rushes him and grabs the crown with him. But he easily overpowers Vorn. He quickly opens a portal hundreds of feet above Lux Æterna and pushes half of vorn through, says something about this portal will rip him in half. While vorn is poking through he see the scene transpiring in the city. 20% of the town didn't make it, the Legion is taking over, and have imprisoned the civilians into little camps. 
The Architect sees it too, and pulls Vorn back through. "You know what, i'll let you share that detail with your friends". He punches Vorn who then slams against the wall and he lands in seated position, temporarily incapacitated, but not unconscious. His allies rush him, but the Architect just uses the corwn like brass knuckles and punches the ground knocking them all back. Continue scene, he tells them about his projection, about how thankful he is, blah blah blah, says the line about eterminating the exterminators, then rips the portal open even larger. He then tells them, he hopes this place is suitable for them, because they'll spend their dying days being entombed here, and does the hand motion (kind of like reaching up, and pulling his arm down quick [much like someone going "YES!"] and makes a crushing motion with his hand). The walls start shaking and he steps throught he portal, closing it behind him. 
The room instantly turns back into the previous room. It was full of runes, urns, ritual magic. They rush to leave, and sprint for the exit helping Vorn along the way. They dodge debris, clear small splits in the Earth. Someone falls but catches themself on a ledge and they aid him up. And they barely make it out. 

They take a breath breather, recoop themselves and discuss. They must go to the city to help. They take a more direct route home than they took to get to the ruins, so it's about a full day travel. Time is weird though, they came out of the portal and it was morning, so they don't have time to recover their wounds.

They  make it about 1 mile away from the city and are ambushed by the sandriders. They get their stuff confiscated, but they sneak a few things. Vaeliths aetherquartz and a smokebomb from Ardyn. The city scene played out a bit differently for me. they try to play dumb "we're just civilians trying to..." soldiers intrupt. "the commander knows who you are" their hit with the buts of spears into submission basically, and led to a pen. They talk with Sabel. And then Ardyn is inspecting the pen looking for an exit when he notices Tajsh coming in the legio cloak. They make eye contact and that scene kind of plays out exactly as written. The only difference is, he says part of his deal was him letting go of the non-mage innocent people. The book went into an evidence chest. At the end I added a line where as the Architect was being destroyed, he teleported to Tajsh, and only the Norseman hears this he says "I trusted you" and stabs him in the chest. So we need to add somethign in this scene that makes Tajsh a bit more human. a bit more "good". because Tajshs response while dying is. "i know i messed up. I know what the architect just said and it's true. But somewhere along the way, I couldn't do it anymore. I'm sorry. My life to save them (he gently waves his arms towards the people coming out), is a fair trade. So we need to make sure he feels more human in the pen scene. 